---
title: "Wow..."
date: "2004-11-16"
category: News
tags: [Crimson-Frost,Rampage]
---

I was really hoping to be less infrequent with updates. However, I've been busy with a good cause at least...

**CRIMSON FROST!!**

After so long and throwing away about four half-song false starts, I finally wrote this song, the title track for the upcoming Rampage EP of the same name, and got a demo to Aerik and Toby. Aerik went nuts over the demo, and Toby is working on the drums now. For the past two nights I've been recording on the four songs that he already did drums for, so Crimson Frost (the EP) is proceeding at quite a nice pace. Rhythms are almost done for the songs I have drums for, and bass and leads are next - then it's all up to Aerik and his magic pipes. Go see his LJ page for his thoughts on the scratch tracks we've got so far.

Also, I've just learned it's official - Rampage just signed the contracts with Paragon Records for the upcoming split vinyl with Goat Horn. Aerik's just sent me half the lyrics for that set of songs, and the other half is coming soon.

After a long while I'm finally back 'on the horse' with songwriting, so let's see how long we can ride this bucking bronco...

***

*(You know, I remember the dicking-over that Evil Edith and Suffering Jesus Productions gave us with releasing Crimson Frost about a year after this, but I almost totally forgot that Goat Horn also fucked us over. But look how excited we were at the time. Had the Titanic been in the digital age, imagine how many Facebook posts and selfies of people having a good time would have been posted from April 11-14, 1912, and how we would look at them now.*

*Okay, maybe that's overly dramatic, but the point still stands. The only part I really lament is that Aerik's blog is gone so I don't have any access now to his thoughts back then. Oh well - c'est la vie.)*
