---
title: "Lyrics"
date: "2005-01-28"
category: Meta
tags: [Meta]
---

Lately a few people have been asking me for lyrics to Rampage's songs. Normally, to me anyway, I don't feel like I have to know all the lyrics to music I listen to - I just sort of absorb the whole thing as it sounds, and sometimes words pop out that I can understand - and if I can't, it's not a biggie. I might sate my curiosity if something sounds weird, but it's nothing lifeshattering if I don't know everything someone is singing. With Rampage, also, since I wrote them or worked from lyrics Aerik gave me, I already know all the words.

Also, normally, to me anyway, I can't stomach the thought of listening to something and reading along, since I just can't read that slow, and reading ahead means I take lyrics out of context - I personally believe they belong with the music, and so reading the lyrics alone is like only getting half the story, or less. Thus, posting the lyrics or printing them in the booklets, to me, both encourages 'cheating' and enables people to take the lyrics out of context thus lessening the impact I want songs to have.

NEVERTHELESS.... fans still want them, so who am I to deny them?

So, what I'm going to do is this - combine the lyrics with something I've always wanted to do - discuss songwriting from the inside. I seriously had this idea before Aerik started doing this on his own blog. What I'll do is post the lyrics, but you'll also have to wade through paragraphs of me talking about the songs, their genesis, how the music fits what's going on story-wise, etc.

Hopefully you'll indulge me.

**

*(Funny how this business of posting song thoughts and memories along with lyrics became one of my favorite parts about my blog, but here I announce it with such trepidation. I knew I got the idea from Aerik somehow, but I forgot that I got the idea from something he was actually doing. I so lament that his blog is gone now - I'd be interested in seeing some of those posts again.*

*I wonder if they're in the Wayback Machine?)*
