---
title: "Burn it."
date: "2005-12-16"
category: Meta
tags: [Meta]
---

I was in the process of finally getting Crimson Frost updated and put into UHR's website when I realized just how shitty it looked. And badly organized. Yuk.

I'm in the middle of revamping the site. I'll be removing about half the shit that's there and trimming to a much more useful, streamlined site - the 'artist' page will include all band logos and links to all of each bands external pages (including homepages and online sample sites/audio, etc.), killing two or three birds with one stone. The rest will get at least a facelift, if not a complete gutting/rewriting.

I'm also trying to learn CSS a bit better and make the coding that much easier and cleaner. Learning as I go, of course, so most purists would probably laugh at it still, but it's the best I can do on what I can afford to pay for web design.

I would, however, like some help if someone is handy with photoshop... I'd like a masthead to use at the top of all the pages. I'm thinking of the name "Unsung Heroes Records" in the DooM font, as it is now, but on three staggered lines. Then, I'd like an embossed-3d type of look to it, maybe with a bit of a metallic sheen. Something more than just a flat graphic. Anyone wanna help? I can get you something in return for it...

***

*(It was a perennial problem, apparently. I knew I had to teach myself CSS at some point, but I thought it was earlier than this. I still have a lot of learning to do, though - I wasn't even doing anything elaborate with it, except just streamlining code by moving all color/font/header/list attributes to the style sheet instead of having to code each page or tag separately.*

*I never did get that silver-metal-style graphic, though. I need to do some Photoshop work as well, apparently.)*
