---
title: "It lives!"
date: "2007-04-13"
category: News
tags: [Meta]
---

I played a hi-tech Dr. Frankenstein over the past week and weekend. Trolling through online computer part graveyards for pieces. Assembling them in my lab. And, finally, juicing it up with a shitload of electricity.

And it lives - my new PC is alive. But not complete.

Inside an Antec Sonata II case:

- Intel DP965LT Motherboard Intel Core2 Duo E6400 Processor (2x 2.13GHz processors, 1066MHz FSB) 
- 2 250 GB Seagate Barracuda SATA 3.0GB/s Hard Drives 
- 2 GB Memory (2x1GB sticks - and the board runs memory in dual-channel) 
- eVGA Nvidia GeForce 7900 GS video card (PCI-E, 256MB VRAM)

The board has integrated audio, which is fine for games and general junk. I will bring over my Audiotrak Maya44 Recording Audio card when *Bellum Aeternum* is finished mixing, since I don't think that Sonar 2 tracks will behave well in Sonar 6. Plus, it gives me impetus to get the fucking thing done, finally. Also, I'm currently coasting along on some old 4/4/24 CDRW burner for an optical drive until I can move the DVD-RW drive from the old PC as well (still got a ton of files to archive and such - though I guess I could just move them over my network).

Anyway, it's this new machine that I'm writing this now on. It really wasn't that bad - being my first time, even though everyone says it's easy, I was fearing massive problems of one sort or other. Fortunately, it all went fine.

***

*(Another nice snapshot. Again, I'm still on largely the same PC. Life cycles for newer equipment are getting shorter, but usable life strangely is getting longer - there's no way the computer I recorded This End Up on could have handled Displeasures, while this one managed to record the Death Beast live album, and I'm confident this PC can handle "The Onslaught" too.)*
